Registry Infrastructure review (#906)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/registry.rst

  - **Quality Assurance**: Maintains authoritative status and data reliability across different domains.
  - **Regulatory Compliance**: Supports public administration transparency and private sector coordination requirements.

.. note::

>    AS Registry is a technical and non-public registry that provides guidance for the Credential Issuer for credential provisioning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Authentic Source Registry is a technical and non-public registry that provides guidance for the Credential Issuer for Credential provisioning.
```

> AS Registry Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authentic Source Registry Usage
```

  - ``https://motorizzazione.gov.example``: Public - Ministry of Transport, Motorization Dept
  - ``https://registry.anpr.example``: Public - National Registry of Resident Population
  - ``https://api.bank.example/auth-source``: Private - Example Bank Financial Services

> AS Registry Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authentic Source Registry Parameters
```

""""""""""""""""""""""

The AS Registry MUST contain the following parameters for each registered Authentic Source:

.. list-table:: First-level Fields of the AS Registry
   :class: longtable
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

* - Field Name
     - Description
   * - **version**
     - REQUIRED. The version of the AS Registry (e.g., ``1.0``).
   * - **last_modified**
     - REQUIRED. The timestamp indicating when the list was last updated (e.g., ``2025-03-15T12:00:00Z``).
   * - **authentic_sources**

>      - REQUIRED. An array containing the supported schemas definitions.

Reviewer: we should say about the format of each entry of the array

The JWS payload contains the following parameters:

.. list-table:: First-level Fields of the Digital Credentials Catalog
   :class: longtable
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 30 70

   * - Field Name
     - Description
   * - **version**
     - REQUIRED. Version of the Digital Credential Catalog format.
   * - **last_modified**
     - REQUIRED. Timestamp of the last modification to the Digital Credential Catalog.
   * - **iss**
     - REQUIRED. Issuer identifier of the Digital Credential Catalog.
   * - **credentials**
     - REQUIRED. Array containing Digital Credential definitions.
   * - **wallet_app_attestations**

>      - REQUIRED. A JSON Array containing definitions for Wallet App Attestations, including their supported formats, and associated claims. This Object is used by other entities, such as Issuers and Relying Parties, to retrieve information about the Wallet App Attestation formats supported within the ecosystem.

Reviewer: we should say about the format of each array entry

Reviewer: please provide an example of a single entry, I would like to check it.

Generally, it would be better to keep it as key:value instead of array

        "...": "..."
      }

Localization bundles MUST be available at the URI specified in the **localization_info.bundles_base_uri** claim of the Digital Credentials Catalog. Each locale bundle MUST be accessible following the naming pattern **{locale_code}.json**, where **{locale_code}** is replaced with the corresponding locale code from the **available_locales** array.

A non-normative example of the Italian localization URI for the mDL bundle would be **https://trust-registry.eid-wallet.example.it/.well-known/l10n/mdl/it.json**. 

Entities SHOULD verify the integrity of downloaded localization bundles using the digest method and values specified in the **localization_info.integrity** claim. This ensures that the localization data has not been tampered with during transmission.

Decentralization of Display and Claim Information
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The canonical source for display characteristics and claim structure is determined by the **Credential Issuer's Metadata (Entity Configuration)**.

> The overall logic for presenting a credential is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The overall logic for presenting a Credential is:
```

> 1. The Wallet/Relying Party retrieves the lightweight **Digital Credentials Catalog** to discover the available `credential_type` and the `entity_id` of its Issuers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Wallet/Relying Party retrieves the lightweight **Digital Credentials Catalog** to discover the available `credential_type` and the `entity_id` of their Credential Issuers.
```

2. It retrieves the full **Credential Issuer Metadata** (Entity Configuration) from the discovered `entity_id`.
3. The Credential Issuer Metadata MUST contain the full display characteristics (logos, colors) and the detailed schema information (via links to the appropriate Type Metadata or directly in the configuration). The Issuer builds this metadata based on the suggestions provided by the Authentic Source (via the AS Registry) and the standard schema specifications (via the Schema Registry).

Taxonomy
--------

> The **Taxonomy** provides the semantic foundation for Digital Credential interoperability by maintaining the authoritative vocabulary for organizing credentials within the IT-Wallet ecosystem. The taxonomy is credential format neutral and has the aim of facilitating Digital Credentials integrations in the IT-Wallet Technical Solutions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Taxonomy** provides the semantic foundation for Digital Credential interoperability by maintaining the authoritative vocabulary for organizing Credentials within the IT-Wallet ecosystem. The taxonomy is neutral with respect to the Credential format. 
```

2. **AS Registry** ↔ **Catalog**: Credential types reference AS capabilities for data source validation.
3. **Catalog** ↔ **Taxonomy**: Credential entries specify domains and purposes from the taxonomy for discovery and authorization.
4. **Federation Registry** ↔ **All Components**: Provides cryptographic trust validation for all registry operations and entity authentication.

> 5. **Schema Registry** ↔ **Issuer/RPs**: Provides the verifiable link to all known credential format specifications used in the ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **Schema Registry** ↔ **Issuer/RPs**: Provides the verifiable link to all known Credential format specifications used in the ecosystem.
```

Registry Infrastructure Usage Journeys
------------------------------------------

The components of the Registry Infrastructure are designed to support various operational phases of the IT-Wallet ecosystem, each involving specific interactions between entities. 
The main Journeys below illustrate the interactions with the Registry Infrastructure.

Catalog Browsing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> This *Catalog Browsing* journey supports users (both human users via a **Wallet Instance** and automated systems like **Relying Parties** or web portals) in discovering and selecting available Digital Credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This *Catalog Browsing* journey supports Users (both human users via a **Wallet Instance** and automated systems like **Relying Parties** or web portals) in discovering and selecting available Digital Credentials.
```

1.  **Accessing the Discovery Endpoint**: The entity (e.g., a Wallet Provider or informational portal) accesses the `Registry Discovery Endpoint` (``.well-known/it-wallet-registry``) to obtain the URI of the **Digital Credentials Catalog**.
2.  **Navigation and Selection**:

>     * **Credential Discovery**: The entity browses the list of Credentials (``credentials`` field) to identify relevant credential types (e.g., ``pid``, ``driving_license``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Credential Discovery**: The entity browses the list of Credentials (``credentials`` field) to identify relevant Credential types (e.g., ``pid``, ``driving_license``).
```

>     * **Issuer Metadata**: The entity extracts the **Issuer Identifier** (`entity_id` within the `issuers` field) associated with the desired credential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Issuer Metadata**: The entity extracts the **Issuer Identifier** (`entity_id` within the `issuers` field) associated with the desired Credential.
```

    * **Detail Consultation**: To obtain complete information oand specific technical requirements, the entity accesses the **Entity Configuration** (Issuer Metadata) using the retrieved identifier.
3.  **Final Action**: The entity can then can use the metadata to display the catalog information to a User (or use the information in other way).

Credential Issuance
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> This journey defines how a **Credential Issuer (CI)** uses the Registry Infrastructure to prepare and issue a compliant Digital Credential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This journey defines how a Credential Issuer uses the Registry Infrastructure to prepare and issue a compliant Digital Credential.
```

> 1.  **Identifying Requirements**: The CI consults the **Digital Credentials Catalog** for the technical requirements of the credential type to be issued (e.g., `max_validity_days`, `min_loa`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  **Identifying Requirements**: The CI consults the **Digital Credentials Catalog** for the technical requirements of the Credential type to be issued (e.g., ``max_validity_days``, ``min_loa``).
```

2.  **Schema and Claim Resolution**:
    * The CI consults the **Schema Registry** to retrieve the technical specification of the format and schema (e.g., JSON Schema for SD-JWT) required by the Catalog, ensuring validity and integrity via the hash (`schema_uri#integrity`).
    * The CI accesses the **Claims Registry** to retrieve the standardized semantic definitions and data formats (data types) of the necessary attributes (claims).
3.  **Authentic Data Retrieval**:
    * The CI consults the **Authentic Source (AS) Registry** to identify the authorized **Authentic Source** (AS) for the required dataset. The AS Registry provides the AS's ``entity_id`` and the technical details of the interface (`integration_endpoint`, `integration_method`).

>     * The CI consults the AS endpoint specification to implement the integration needed to retrieve the user data required to populate the  Digital Credential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The CI consults the AS endpoint specification to implement the integration needed to retrieve the User data required to populate the Digital Credential.
```

4.  **Credential Issuance**: The CI uses the retrieved data, validated schemas, and specified formats to generate and sign the Digital Credential in the correct format (e.g., SD-JWT or mDOC).

Credential Presentation and Verification
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This journey describes how a **Wallet Instance** and a **Relying Party (RP)** interact with the Registry Infrastructure when a Digital Credential needs to be presented by a User.

1.  **Wallet Authorization and Selection**:
    * The Wallet receives a Presentation Request from the RP, verifies the validity of the request comparing the requested *claims* with the *Authorization Policies* related to the RP (via the **Taxonomy** definitions).

>     * The Wallet consults the **Digital Credentials Catalog** to verify the *Domains* and *Purposes* associated with the credential types it holds, evaluating which credentials are suitable for the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The Wallet consults the **Digital Credentials Catalog** to verify the *Domains* and *Purposes* associated with the Credential types it holds, evaluating which Credentials are suitable for the request.
```

    * The Wallet verifies if the required attributes (claims) are available and authorized for disclosure based on the request policy (**Credential-Specific** or **Credential-Agnostic** scenarios).
    * The User authorizes the release of the selected, selectively disclosed attributes. The Wallet then packages and presents the Digital Credential to the RP.

2.  **Discovery and Integrity**:
    * The RP receives the Digital Credential from the User.

>     * The RP consults the **Federation Registry** via the Trust Anchor's endpoint (`federation_resolve`, `federation_trust_mark_status`) to verify the **cryptographic trust** (Trust Mark) of the Issuer and Wallet Provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The RP consults the **Federation Registry** via the Trust Anchor's endpoint (`federation_resolve`, `federation_trust_mark_status`) to verify the **cryptographic trust** (Trust Mark) of the Issuer and Wallet Provider.
```
we should point to the trust section, where we describe all the trust discovery patterns by use case

>     * The RP consults the **Schema Registry** to download the schema of the presented credential (`schema_uri`), verifying its integrity (`schema_uri#integrity`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The RP consults the **Schema Registry** to download the schema of the presented Credential (`schema_uri`), verifying its integrity (`schema_uri#integrity`).
```

3.  **Schema and Final Policy Validation**:
    * The RP uses the retrieved schema to validate the structure of the Credential and the data types of the revealed attributes.

>     * The RP performs the final check to ensure that the attributes (claims) presented are sufficient and comply with the specific requirements of the initial request and authorization policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The RP performs the final check to ensure that the attributes presented comply with the specific requirements of the initial request and authorization policy.
```

> 4.  **Acceptance or Rejection**: Based on cryptographic validation, schema compliance, and policy-based authorization, the RP accepts or rejects the credential for service access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.  **Acceptance or Rejection**: Based on cryptographic validation, schema compliance, and policy-based authorization, the RP accepts or rejects the Credential for service access.
```
